- [Frank] The final data access pattern
we will discuss is asynchronous evening.
While it needs to be talked about as a pattern,
it is much bigger than this course.
Check out my course in the library,
Microservices: Asynchronous Messaging,
to dive much deeper into this topic.
Many times in a microservices architecture,
you run into situations with long-running transactions
or complex workflows that just cannot fit
into a single, blocking API call.
Enter into the picture asynchronous eventing.
The problems we can solve go beyond what I just described.
But essentially, in a nutshell, we can describe
the super set of problems as some process
that cannot be done in real-time through a blocking call.
The pattern deployed depend upon the use cases.
But they all share a common thread,
a service API that triggers the event.
The event can cascade asynchronously from the API itself,
putting together a series of actions
that happen behind the scenes,
after the client has received an accepted message
from the service API.
Other times, you can make a single blocking call
and put a message on a messaging system.
Once that is done, the service returns
and the behind-the-scenes processing occurs
in an asynchronous manner.
One key characteristic of this model
is how powerful it can be in a distributed system.
Nothing is a silver bullet when it comes to software.
But, there are many complex problems in distributed systems
that asynchronous eventing can solve.
As I stated before, I encourage you to take
the Microservices: Asynchronous Messaging course
for a lot more detailed view of the why
as well as the how-to-do this set
of complex patterns for data access.